Hey I'm back um there's no point in the
whole introduction thing we have a Cylon
and everything's good to go now I'm
going to show you how to put on a bridle
I am going to use a bridle with
hackamore attached to it just because I
don't really feel like sticking a cold
bit and a horse's mouth in the
wintertime it's just I wouldn't want it
in my mouth so I'm not going to stick it
in hers so let me quickly grabbed the
bridle
okay so bridle I'm going to use is I
showed this in earlier videos my bridle
with hackmore on it and my braided
friend black reins so basically all I do
I don't ride with halters on underneath
bridles just because I fished up what's
the point of it I don't understand it so
I just take the filter off if I don't
normally do this but if you do need more
control over your horse go ahead and put
tie it around her neck so that she is to
say they won't run away from you or
anything I normally put the reins up and
over her head first so just in case they
do just had to run I still have a hold
of them in some sort of way um basically
all I do is I put my hand right here and
I bring this down like down under her
nose and she will actually put her nose
into it for me normally you're gonna
have to do it the other way but you
don't want to put the nose first you
want to make sure that this is up and
over her head before the nose then you
push the ears forward and you put the
two ears in
and if you need to adjust anything
adjust it on throat latch goes on and
that's where you can get to two to three
fingers underneath to throw a latch so
it's not going to choke her and it's not
going to fly off her head when you're
either competing trail I'd trail riding
or anything like that so basically
that's all that's the only thing you do
for putting on a bridle a lot of people
if you can pull this out to where you
can fit actually this is say I pull it
out and I can pull it to here like at
this point and I can fit my whole arm
probably both arms through it that is
way too loose you need to tighten your
bridle so you should be able to pull it
out and this goes for bits also if you
have a bit in the mouth you should be
able to pull it out and fit at least two
to three fingers maybe just two fingers
with a little bit of space in between
and that is how you actually fit it to
your horse with a bit everyone says you
have to have wrinkles in the lip you you
don't all you really need to do is
that'll be do the same thing at least
have two to three fingers space in
between their cheek and the bridle and
that will fit your horse now if you're
bit if the horse is trying to like eat
the bridle I guess you can say is
describing it or trying to like lift it
up into the mouth then go ahead and lift
that up one more time your horse
shouldn't have to like try to keep the
bit in its mouth and the horse shouldn't
have wrinkles on its lips because then
you're putting pressure on it and when
you want to go you don't want pressure
on pressure that makes that doesn't make
any sense like they're going to be a
little confused or a lot confused
so that's basically all I do for that
untie the rope halter
put it away in my case I just toss it
because mess in there anyway who cares
so yeah that is the extent of that video
umm so yep got her saddled have her
bridled and her reins on and she's good
to go for riding for trail riding at
least if you're doing competitions then
you have like the boots and all that
other stuff that you have to do but your
basic saddling and bridling is all right
here so thank you subscribe and give a
cowgirl her Spurs bye